yeah
PowerPoint lesson 9 creating movement
paths we use paths in PowerPoint to
create animations will now demonstrate
how to create a straight path to move
this sailboat from the right side of the
screen to the left here we'll click on
the sailboat to make it selected you'll
know it's selected by the handles
appearing around the image then we move
our mouse up to the slideshow menu at
the top of the screen and choose custom
animation the custom animation task bar
appears on the right hand side of our
PowerPoint screen we'll choose the add
effect button and from that select the
motion paths command you'll notice
there's many different paths to choose
from we're simply going to choose left
once we do PowerPoint immediately
demonstrates that movement for us the
straight path appears with a green
starting point and a red stopping point
both of these points may be moved to
change the position of your animation in
a moment we'll learn how to extend the
path to have the sailboat move a greater
distance a motion path is a graphic
object and as such we need to click on
it to display its handles once we do
that we can click on the handle for the
red portion of our path to extend it
when you click and drag the path it's
best to hold down the shift key on your
keyboard to maintain a perfectly
straight line that's it the path has
been extended now we'll move our mouse
over to the play button in the custom
animation task bar and click play to
test our new path when the animation
concludes it returns to its starting
position
let's review creating a straight path in
PowerPoint what we'll do is take this
second sailboat and move it to the right
we first select it and then move to the
custom animation task bar and click add
effect from the list of effects will
choose motion paths and because we want
to move the sailboat to the right we'll
select the right command PowerPoint
immediately demonstrates the movement
we've successfully created a path but
now we'd like to extend it so the sail
boat moves completely across the screen
we'll select the path that we created
and then holding down the shift key
we'll click and drag to the right now
that our path has been extended we can
try it out by clicking the play button
on the custom animation task bar
notice the mouse icon next to each of
the items in the custom animation task
bar that indicates we'll have to click
the mouse in order to animate each of
these items or creating a custom pet
will now demonstrate how to create a
custom path in PowerPoint we're going to
animate this soccer ball
so we'll click it to select it and then
move the mouse over to the custom
animation task bar and click add effect
the effect we're adding is a motion path
so we'll select motion path from the
list of commands and choose draw custom
path the one we're going to select is
scribble which is an open-ended path
after we select scribble you'll note
that the mouse pointer becomes a pencil
shape we click the pencil where we want
to start the path and then draw down and
up in this case to create a simulation
of the ball bouncing when it moves along
the path when we lift the mouse button
the animation is effective we might
decide to adjust this particular
animation path because it's moving the
soccer ball slightly off the slide we
click the path and then move it slightly
to the left and to test out our new path
we'll click the play button on the
custom animation task bar when we click
play the soccer ball becomes animated
our example here shows many of the ways
you can use motion paths in your
PowerPoint presentation this concludes
lesson 9 creating paths in powerful